Well in the last video we took a look at setting up the scene for texture painting.
Now what I like to do is just begin establishing the base colors of the textures.
So to do that I'm going to use this little guy right down here.
This is the face selection masking for painting.
So what we can do is turn this on and you can see we've got now the wireframe of the mesh.
And if I press the A key it will select all of the polygons if I hit the A key again it'll de-select
them.
I can also click and select individual polygons I can hold the shift key down and select multiple polygons
so we can use this to begin selecting the areas I would like to lay down a base color on.
Now the nice thing about it is it actually masks out areas you do not want to paint on.
So if I had these faces selected and went to my Tools tab and changed my color lets say I changed my
color to some sort of white ish here and I came over and I began painting.
You can see that as I go off those selected polygons it will not paint on those so that will allow us
to use the fill brush.
We're going to hit the A key to de-select these will be able to come over here and use the fill brush
to fill selected areas with a base color.
Now if you do not have a fill brush in your selection here in your paint brush selection all you really
need to do is create a new brush with the plus icon here and then all you have to do once you've created
that brush and have it selected you just come down here to the brush menu go to image paint tools and
change your brush type from whatever it is to fill.
So sometimes the fill brush doesn't appear here so you can just create a new one and switch it to the
fill.
All right so I'm going to change my brush to the fill brush and I'm going to give myself a nice greenish
color here because he's a Green Goblin of some sort and the colors don't have to be perfect here but
I just want to get the general colors laid down.
So for this now let me begin here on the torso.
I'm going to hover over this area and press the L key and what that will do is select that area based
on the seams that you created long ago for U-V mapping.
Right.
So if I hover over the head here and press the L key you can see that it's just selecting the areas
within the seams and I'll hover over the ears and press the key as well.
And now I can just with Phil brush selected and this color selected I'm going to turn my strength up
all the way.
I can just come over here and click and it'll fill that color or fill that area with my selected color
and you can see that it will fill it over here on the U-V map as well.
Now I'm going to make that color just a little bit darker about that.
Yeah.
Get in there about that.
Why not.
We'll add some more detail and texture to that as we go.
But that's looking OK.
All right so when you press the H key to de-select that area and then hover over this part and press
the L key and then I think just click here and I will go.
Same thing with the fingers.
It is a key to de-select and then hit the L key to select all the fingers and click and I'll come over
here and hit the A key.
Select the legs and click there as well.
OK so now we've laid down the base color for the skin.
Let's do the same thing for the leather items.
We're going to need a brown for this.
I'm just going to swing over here to the brownish area and make it a little bit darker maybe something
like that.
And once again these are not final colors I'm just laying down a base so I'm not painting directly on
the black here so I'll hit the A key to de-select everything and then hover over these arm bands and
press Al probably the boots and the little rim there on the boots I bet I'll need to come down here
and get the soles of the boots sure enough.
I'll just click here.
Let's now work on the little Toga thing.
This I think I want to be a little bit lighter a little bit.
Beige maybe something like this.
Presti.
For all of these pieces
and click and then the buckles and the shoulder armor I was thinking silver for these.
Well let's try that I'll select a black and then I'll bring up the slider to make it kind of a gray
silver ish thing.
We go and hover over these and press the L key.
Now it looks like yeah.
When I did that there must be a seam there so all hover over that with the L key there as well.
And the shoulder pad here.
I'll try and fill all this with the L key.
All right.
And I'll click and maybe that should be a little bit darker.
Let's try that.
Something like that maybe even a little darker Why not.
And we go.
All right.
So now I can come down here and turn off the face selection.
And then we have the base colors of our character.
Now we need to do two things here.
One is to save our scenes so limited press control or command s to save our scene.
But also I need to come over here and press alt s to save this scene or to save this image.
I should say so.
Yes.
And that saves the image because remember that is a completely other entity a completely other file
on our drive from our blender seen file.
Now looks like I missed something right down here.
Sure enough.
Let me just turn this on real quick and grab these.
Now this is a good time to ask how do I get that the same color how do I sample that color.
Well if we come over here to the U-V editor part and we make sure that this is change the mode is set
to paint.
We can then come in here to any color hold the key down.
We get an eye dropper and then we click and that will create a little pallet right here for that color.
So now I can choose that palette.
And we're back to the same color and now we can fill this with the fill brush.
And here we go so that's an easy way to sample colors off of your U-V map here we'll also be using that
technique to sample colors off of images we find on say Google Images or something like that.
OK so we've got our base colors laid down.
We haven't done the ice yet.
That's OK.
We'll work on that here pretty soon.
I'm going to turn that face masking off.
Saved my scene.
And if I hold the middle mouse button and drag back over here I can see that we still have an asterix
here so many hit alt s to save that image.
Now I talked last time about how are we going to be able to see where we're painting where we should
be painting to get details like if I come back over here to the high poly object and I get out of texture
viewport shading for a minute here I'll just switch over to solid and maybe a better switch over to
object mode as well.
There we go.
You can see that we've got these straps here.
How am I going to see where these should be on the model.
Over here how am I going to know where to paint.
Well what we can do let me go back to when we select the object and I'm back to texture paint.
Now what we can do is we can use our paint slots right here to bring in the normal map so we can see
where the high resolution sculpting was.
So I'll hit the add texture paint slot right here and I'll come over to normal because we're going to
bring in a normal map and maybe I'll change the name to normal map.
And I think we've been working with 2048 haven't we.
And we go and I click OK now we need to go find the image to put in our normal map.
So if we come over here now and selected that texture layer we can scroll down here go to the image
section.
Click on open and now I just need to find that normal map.
Here we go I think this is it and click open.
Now we've added the image to the slot.
Here it is here.
And if we switch over to it we can see it here.
There's our normal map and now we can see those strips on the arm bands but we can't see the color through
there.
One of the things I need to do is just switch back to texture view in my viewport and there we go.
So now we can see both the color and the normal map in our 3D view.
So as we paint we can see where we're supposed to paint we can see where the wrinkles on the fingers
are or the strips on the gloves or even a bit of the muscle definition.
Even the ears a bit.
Now this isn't perfect This isn't beautiful this is just a a temporary thing as we paint but it allows
us to get a good sense of where the paint should go down.
So we'll be using this normal map to help us paint the detail for our high resolution sculpt in the
next video we'll take a look at adding more texture slots so we can build up layers of paint on the
character.